In this lecture, you'll learn how to configure your switches to support your wireless network.
I'll start off first with the configuration for autonomous standalone apps where we're not using a wireless
LAN controller, and then I'll show you the config when we are using a wireless LAN controller.
OK, so before I show you the configuration, there is a difference depending on whether it is an autonomous
or a lightweight app to review the traffic flow again.
So you can understand why we do have difference.
I'll start off with the autonomous app so she can see in our example here, I've got a couple of wireless
ones, the gas station and the corporate ulen.
And we've got wireless app with a couple of clients connected in there and it's connected into the Wired
network.
First off, let's say that a wireless client, which is in the corporate YULAN change in a frame to
the wireless app.
So it comes in on the corporate W line with the corporate side.
The wireless app is aware of it, then sends it to the upstream switch, which it is connected to.
And when it does, what is going to target with the associate VLAN?
So it's going to be tagged for the corporate and then that will then be sent on to the final destination
by the switch, just as if it was any other normal packet.
Then let's say that the laptop which is connected in to the guest, will be on it.
Change in iFrame to the wireless app.
Well, in that case, the wireless app knows it's coming in on the W line, which is associated with
the guest VLAN.
So it will target with the guest VLAN and send it on to the upstream switch.
And again, the upstream switch will forward as it would any other pocket she can see when we're using
an autonomous app, the app is going to be targeting the frames and sending them on to the switch on
because there can be traffic going for different villains here.
We're going to need to have a trunk configured between the app on the switch to support those different
versions.
So let's look and see how we would configure.
It's the same example.
We've got two wireless ones and we've got the corporate W line with the twenty one and the guest W line,
which is map to view on twenty two.
So we will create our view on first.
So global config on the switch.
I have said view on twenty one name corporate and end view on twenty two name gashed.
Then I need to configure the part on the switch which is connected into the app to in our example its
interface gigabit Ethernet one zero one.
I need it configured as a trunk so I actually switch port trunk ANCOP one.
Q Depending on the model of switch you might not need to put in this command some of the newer switches
only support Dalt one.
Q Anyway, they don't support Israel so if only Dalt one Q is supported, it will give you an error
message when you put in this command because it has all it supports.
But if it is a switch which supports move dot one.
Q on DSL you need to specify is got one.
Q You're using to a switch part func ANCOP don't want you Bentzi switch Portmore Tronc and switch parts
Ivon twenty one and twenty two for the villains that are coming in from the app.
OK, this is either switch configuration where we're using standalone autonomous apps.
Next up, let's look at what we do when we do have a wireless LAN controller and there's a different
traffic Furnari to here.
It will go through the same example again on the laptop, which is in the corporate W on its hands in
a frame to the wireless app.
Now, the wireless app does not now target with the corporate version and send it on to the attach switch,
which will send it to its final destination.
No, the wireless app is going to send it to the wireless LAN controller through the Copwatch Tunnel.
So at this point, the wireless app is not targeting the traffic.
The frame gets sent through to the wireless LAN controller.
The wireless LAN controller then sees it is for the corporate view on because that information was included
when it was sent from the app and it is a wireless LAN controller which will target with the corporate
view on send it back to the switch again and the switch will then send on its final destination as it
would any normal pocket.
So when we are using a wireless LAN controller, the configuration now is it's the wireless LAN controller
which is going to be targeting the frame to.
The link between the switch and the wireless line controller needs to be configured as a trunk, but
the link between the app and the switch is not configured as a trunk.
It is configured as an axis port.
So we're going to configure a management VLAN for traffic coming from the app to the wireless LAN.
All frames are going to go through there with the same VLAN.
So we're not differentiating between the corporate and Degassed Villines on this link from the wireless
app to the switch that all traffic is going to get sent up on the management VLAN.
It's then going to go to the wireless LAN controller when it gets here.
Pinback Box when Vivaan Tag is on.
So when we're using a wireless LAN controller, the link from the switch to the wireless LAN controller
is configured as a trunk part, but the link from the switch to the app is configured as an access port.
So let's look at our configuration.
So in our example we've got the same two lines again, so we need to create the view and so on.
The switch here, a global config, we see a view on 21 named corporate and then view on twenty to name
gashed.
Then because we are using a wireless LAN controller.
We also need to configure valon for management as well.
So I've said Valentin name LG Management and View on 11 name EP management in not example view on 10.
Yoshie management is for the administrator to manage the wireless LAN controller.
So you're going to need to go on to the admin guey for the wireless LAN controller to configure it.
You're going to need connectivity to it.
So we've got a view on set up for in this example we're using Vallentine.
We also have traffic between the access points and the wireless LAN controller is the cop WAP traffic.
And in this example we have configured a different view on from outside view on 11 name IP management.
So the traffic that is coming from the EP to the wireless one controller which has come from the clients,
that is going to be in the app management view on also traffic management.
Traffic coming from the wireless LAN controller when it's managing the apps is also going to be in the
App Management V1.
In this example, I used to different villains.
I used one for when you the administrator is managing the wireless LAN controller and I use the different
VLAN for traffic between the wireless LAN controller on the apps.
They would both have their own separate IP subnets as well.
You can do that.
You can separate them out in two different Valencian IP subnet, or you could just use one VONNE for
both.
So I could have just configured view on the management and I could have used that one VLAN and one IP
subnet both for managing the wireless LAN controller as the administrator and also for traffic between
the wireless LAN controller on the EP.
It's optional.
You can do it either way.
OK, so I've got all of my vans configured now.
Now I'm ready to configure my parts which are connected to the app and a wireless LAN controller.
I'll do the wireless LAN controller first.
So again, when the topic gets here, pinback through the wireless LAN controller back to the switch
again.
The wireless LAN controller is going to be talking about traffic.
So to be able to support the different Villines, it needs to be configured as a trunk part.
So I've got interface gigabit Ethernet one zero two switch part tronc ANCOP don't want to switch Portmore
trunk and switch allowed Villon 10, 11, 21 and 22.
So that is the corporate and degassed view on and also the management Vorlon as well.
They're all allowed or not link between the switch on the wireless LAN controller.
Then lastly, I need to do my configuration for the switch part which is connected to the AP.
The configuration there I see interface gigabit Ethernet one zero one switch for mode access and then
switch for access VONNE 11, which was the AP Management Valon.
So now all traffic coming from the attached wireless clients pneuma are wireless.
Lan there in is going to be sent up to the switch in one VLAN and it will then go to the wireless LAN
controller from there.
When this topic is sent up to the wireless LAN controller, it does include information about what wireless
lan it is.
And so because of that, what the wireless LAN controller, when it sends the topic back to the switch
again, it knows what VLAN to target with.
OK, and this traffic is going up to the wireless LAN controller in WAP tunnel.
OK, that was everything I needed to show you about the switch configuration.
See it in the next lecture.